#summary Answers to FAQs for Developers working with the eyes-free code.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

This wiki page contains links to help developers compile, build and install the eyes-free applications.

= Details =
Please see the README file, available as both a text file and in HTML format, for instructions on how to get started with the various projects. The HTML format file is available using the following link http://eyes-free.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/README.html as is the text file http://eyes-free.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/README

If you would like to write an Accessibility Service, a series of worked examples are available in a 'code-walk' as part of the project. The code-walk is available using the following link http://eyes-free.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ClockBack/CODE-WALK.html

= Troubleshooting build and run time issues =
Here are some notes that may help you debug and fix issues related to building and running the various eyes-free applications.
== Could not find class 'com.google.tts.TextToSpeechBeta' ==
The following problem was discovered when building the Circle IME using Ant. The project build without error (using the following commands)
{{{
cd CircleIME
android update project --path . --target 4
ant -e install -lib ..\commonlibs
}}}

To use the IME:
   * Enable Circle IME in Settings -> Language & keyboard
   * Select it using a long-press in a edit box (where the soft keyboard typically appears). A list of IMEs will be displayed, pick the Circle IME.

If all's well then the IME will be active the next time you touch the edit box. However if you get a 'force close' error then something's wrong and we need to troubleshoot the problem(s).

Here's an extract from {{{ adb logcat }}}

{{{
I/ActivityManager(   77): Start proc com.marvin.circleime for service com.marvin.circleime/.SoftKeyboard: pid=10902 uid=10045 gids={1015}
D/StatusBar(   77): performSetIconVisibility key=android.os.Binder@43887bd8 visible=false
W/InputManagerService(   77): Window already focused, ignoring focus gain of: com.android.internal.view.IInputMethodClient$Stub$Proxy@43ac6638
I/dalvikvm(10902): Debugger thread not active, ignoring DDM send (t=0x41504e4d l=38)
I/dalvikvm(10902): Debugger thread not active, ignoring DDM send (t=0x41504e4d l=44)
E/dalvikvm(10902): Could not find class 'com.google.tts.TextToSpeechBeta', referenced from method com.marvin.circleime.SoftKeyboard.onCreate
W/dalvikvm(10902): VFY: unable to resolve new-instance 37 (Lcom/google/tts/TextToSpeechBeta;) in Lcom/marvin/circleime/SoftKeyboard;
W/dalvikvm(10902): VFY:  rejecting opcode 0x22 at 0x0010
W/dalvikvm(10902): VFY:  rejected Lcom/marvin/circleime/SoftKeyboard;.onCreate ()V
W/dalvikvm(10902): Verifier rejected class Lcom/marvin/circleime/SoftKeyboard;
W/dalvikvm(10902): Class init failed in newInstance call (Lcom/marvin/circleime/SoftKeyboard;)
D/AndroidRuntime(10902): Shutting down VM
W/dalvikvm(10902): threadid=3: thread exiting with uncaught exception (group=0x4001db88)
E/AndroidRuntime(10902): Uncaught handler: thread main exiting due to uncaught exception
E/AndroidRuntime(10902): java.lang.VerifyError: com.marvin.circleime.SoftKeyboard
E/AndroidRuntime(10902):        at java.lang.Class.newInstanceImpl(Native Method)
E/AndroidRuntime(10902):        at java.lang.Class.newInstance(Class.java:1472)
E/AndroidRuntime(10902):        at android.app.ActivityThread.handleCreateService(ActivityThread.java:2737)
E/AndroidRuntime(10902):        at android.app.ActivityThread.access$3100(ActivityThread.java:123)
E/AndroidRuntime(10902):        at android.app.ActivityThread$H.handleMessage(ActivityThread.java:1895)
E/AndroidRuntime(10902):        at android.os.Handler.dispatchMessage(Handler.java:99)
E/AndroidRuntime(10902):        at android.os.Looper.loop(Looper.java:123)
E/AndroidRuntime(10902):        at android.app.ActivityThread.main(ActivityThread.java:4321)
E/AndroidRuntime(10902):        at java.lang.reflect.Method.invokeNative(NativeMethod)
E/AndroidRuntime(10902):        at java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:521)
E/AndroidRuntime(10902):        at com.android.internal.os.ZygoteInit$MethodAndArgsCaller.run(ZygoteInit.java:791)
E/AndroidRuntime(10902):        at com.android.internal.os.ZygoteInit.main(ZygoteInit.java:549)
E/AndroidRuntime(10902):        at dalvik.system.NativeStart.main(Native Method)
}}}

The problem is that the TextToSpeechBeta class is missing from the IME. The fix is simple once you know how - copy the TTS_library_stub.jar from the commonlibs folder to the local libs folder of CircleIME. Then run {{{ ant install }}} to rebuild and install the IME on the device and - hopefully - your IME will now work the next time it's initialized. The phone should not need to be restarted for the change to take effect.